# 2025 Meeting Notes

% COPY AND PASTE THE TEMPLATE BELOW
% ## MMM, DDth, YYYY
% ### Attendees
% ### Notes 

## Feb 21st, 2025

### Attendees

* Jason Grout (EC, at Databricks)  
* Brian Granger (AWS)  
* Afshin T. Darian (EC, at QuantStack)  
* Chris Holdgraf (EC, at 2i2c)  
* Ana Ruvalcaba (EC, Cal Poly)  
* Rick Wagner (EC, San Diego Supercomputer Center)  
* Zach Sailer (EC, Apple)  
* Rasik Pandey (Foundation Board, Apple)  
* Stephanie Stattel (Bloomberg)  
* Ben Bastian (Google)  
* Anna Filippova (Snowflake)

### Notes

* Program management: discussed proposal from LF about a program manager resource to start in March.  
  * The current scope of responsibilities planned is:  
    * Coordinate deck creation with ED, Chairperson, other stakeholders  
    * Distribute materials, take minutes, follow up on action items, attendance, etc.  
    * Support strategic discussions and planning  
    * Manage permissions / access to Zoom  
    * Event coordination for events (ONLY booth sponsorships, project webinars / meetups)  
    * Respond to membership inquiries  
    * Facilitate new member onboarding (via email)  
    * Advising Executive Director / Board chair  
  * The governing board will discuss offline whether additional initial responsibilities should be added.  
* Discussed allocating and prioritizing areas of funding, and especially how to get community input.  
  * Some ideas for getting community input included:  
    * Having subprojects or groups from Jupyter present 5-minute talks to the governing board about their needs  
    * Starting an online conversation, with some structure, about needs of subprojects  
    * Designing and opening a call for proposals for funding, with a formal application process  
  * This conversation included some side discussion of how much of the in-process governing board discussions should be private to the governing board vs public. No definite conclusion reached on this topic, but sentiment was expressed to have clear communication with the public about discussions (though perhaps after the fact) to build trust with the community.  
* LF Member summit governing board meeting: some discussion around funding governing board members to attend the in-person meeting at the LF Member summit in March. The governing board had already approved some funding for attendance. We will gather information this week about how much we might need for the upcoming meeting and propose a budget request next time if we exceed the pre-existing allocation.  
* General member governing board representative: a very short discussion introducing the topic of selecting a general member representative to the governing board. We will start an offline discussion to continue the conversation.

## Feb 14th, 2025

### Attendees

* Afshin Darian (EC, QuantStack)  
* Ben Bastian (Google)  
* Jason Grout (EC, Databricks)  
* Ana Ruvalcaba (EC, Cal Poly)  
* Stephanie Stattel (Bloomberg)  
* Rasik Pandey (Apple, bigsur0)  
* Zach Sailer (Apple, Zsailer)  
* Brian Granger (AWS)  
* Rick Wagner (SDSC/UCSD)  
* Chris Holdgraf (2i2c)  
* Anna Filippova (Snowflake) 

### Notes

* Discussed how to support the Jupyter community, how do we improve the health and capacity of the Jupyter subprojects. Many ideas were discussed, including discussing with community members the needs, workshops and other activities that have worked well in the community, how to help in training and mentoring new contributors, and how corporations have engaged in the past to support community maintainers and activities in addition to direct funding.  
* Shared and briefly reviewed [Jupyter Community Building report](https://blog.jupyter.org/community-building-report-project-jupyter-5a0fd7c8b08d). Executive recommendations from this report:  
  * 1\. Create a sustainable events program for subprojects  
  * 2\. Establish a mechanism for requesting resources  
  * 3\. Increase Cross Project Coordination  
  * 4\. Improve onboarding processes for contributors  
* Discussed how the governing board can communicate with the broader community, including setting up a team compass and github repos/projects for tracking work and discussions, as well as publishing a blog post about our work.  
* Discussed briefly finding a JupyterCon program chair  
* Discussed logistics around the governing board meeting at the LF member summit in March.

## Feb 7th, 2025

### Attendees

* Ben Bastian (Google, [github.com/sagelywizard](http://github.com/sagelywizard))  
* Jason Grout (EC, at Databricks, [github.com/jasongrout](http://github.com/jasongrout))  
* Afshin T. Darian (EC)  
* Chris Holdgraf (EC, [2i2c](https://2i2c.org), [`@choldgraf`](https://github.com/choldgraf))  
* Zach Sailer (Apple)   
* Yaniv Schahar (Meta, [github.com/ydawn](http://github.com/ydawn))  
* Stephanie Stattel (Bloomberg)  
  * `@dharmaquark`
* Brian Granger (AWS, ellisonbg)  
* From the LF: Scott Nicholas

### Notes

* Introduce new EC members (Chris Holdgraf and Rick Wagner). We then had a short discussion about how EC elections work, how EC term limits work, and the 2025 election.  
* Budget discussion: approved a $20/month Figma subscription charge to the Jupyter Foundation budget  
* Discussed how to track governing board work asynchronously. We decided to create a public and private repos under the [github.com/jupyter-governance](http://github.com/jupyter-governance) org, along with an associated GitHub project tracking board, to track both public and private business of the Jupyter Foundation Governing Board. This mirrors the system the EC has been using recently.  
* Briefly discussed the upcoming JupyterCon and asked if anyone would like to help with reviewing proposals at a future date, etc.  
* Discussed asking for program management support for Jupyter Foundation and EC meetings (\~10 meetings/month currently), including note taking, scheduling meetings, and putting together an agenda. Scott Nicholas from LF will get a quote for these services.  
* Discussed an in-person governing board meeting at the LF Member Summit in March. Decided to pursue scheduling a meeting Monday, March 17\.  
* Very brief introduction to a discussion about the areas in which we could invest Jupyter Foundation funds that would benefit the community the most, and how to work with the community to decide these strategic areas. We decided to start an asynchronous discussion on this topic and continue this discussion next meeting.

## Jan 31st, 2025

* Attendees: Afshin T. Darian (EC, at QuantStack), Ana Ruvalcaba (EC, at Cal Poly University), Ben Bastian (Google) , Brian Granger (EC, at AWS), Jason Grout (EC, at Databricks), Rasik Pandey (Apple), Stephanie Stattel (Bloomberg), Yaniv Schahar (Meta), Zach Sailer (EC, at Apple)  
* Discussed how we want to run governing board meetings. For now, agenda and minutes follow the template of: attendees, decisions made, action items, public meeting minutes, community update from the EC, agenda and discussion  
* Discussed having a governing board meeting at the LF Member Summit in March. Broad support was expressed, so we are moving forward on getting logistic details to approve.  
* Discussed program management support that the Jupyter Foundation (and governing board) needs